1.MIxS shared mandatory descriptors(core items)
"Structured comment name"	"Item name"	"Definition"
investigation_type	"investigation type"	Nucleic Acid Sequence Report is the root element of all MIGS/MIMS compliant reports as standardized by Genomic Standards Consortium. This field is either eukaryote,bacteria,virus,plasmid,organelle, metagenome, miens-survey or miens-culture.
project_name	"project name"	Name of the project within which the sequencing was organized.
lat_lon	"geographic location (latitude and longitude)"	The geographical origin of the sample as defined by latitude and longitude. The values should be reported in decimal degrees and in WGS84 system
geo_loc_name	"geographic location (country and/or sea,region)"	The geographical origin of the sample as defined by the country or sea name followed by specific region name. Country or sea names should be chosen from the INSDC country list (http://insdc.org/country.html), or the GAZ ontology (v1.446) (http://purl.bioontology.org/ontology/GAZ)
collection_date	"collection date"	The time of sampling, either as an instance (single point in time) or interval. In case no exact time is available, the date/time can be right truncated i.e. all of these are valid times: 2008-01-23T19:23:10+00:00; 2008-01-23T19:23:10; 2008-01-23; 2008-01; 2008; Except: 2008-01; 2008 all are ISO8601 compliant.
biome	"environment (biome)"	In environmental biome level are the major classes of ecologically similar communities of plants, animals, and other organisms. Biomes are defined based on factors such as plant structures, leaf types, plant spacing, and other factors like climate. Examples include: desert, taiga, deciduous woodland, or coral reef. EnvO (v1.53) terms listed under environmental biome can be found from the link: http://www.environmentontology.org/Browse-EnvO
feature	environment (feature)	Environmental feature level includes geographic environmental features. Examples include: harbor, cliff, or lake. EnvO (v1.53) terms listed under environmental feature can be found from the link: http://www.environmentontology.org/Browse-EnvO
material	environment (material)	The environmental material level refers to the matter that was displaced by the sample, prior to the sampling event. Environmental matter terms are generally mass nouns. Examples include: air, soil, or water. EnvO (v1.53) terms listed under environmental matter can be found from the link: http://www.environmentontology.org/Browse-EnvO
env_package	environmental package	MIGS/MIMS/MIMARK extension for reporting of measurements and observations obtained from one or more of the environments where the sample was obtained. All environmental packages listed here are further defined in separate subtables. By giving the name of the environmental package, a selection of fields can be made from the subtables and can be reported.
seq_meth	"sequencing method"	Sequencing method used; e.g. Sanger, pyrosequencing, ABI-solid.
2.MIGS-specific mandatory descriptors(Genome)
"Structured comment name"	"Item name"	"Definition"
"ploidy"	"ploidy"	The ploidy level of the genome (e.g. allopolyploid, haploid, diploid, triploid, tetraploid). It has implications for the downstream study of duplicated gene and regions of the genomes (and perhaps for difficulties in assembly). For terms, please select terms listed under class ploidy (PATO:001374) of Phenotypic Quality Ontology (PATO), and for a browser of PATO (v1.269) please refer to http://purl.bioontology.org/ontology/PATO
"num_replicons"	"number of replicons"	Reports the number of replicons in a nuclear genome of eukaryotes, in the genome of a bacterium or archaea or the number of segments in a segmented virus. Always applied to the haploid chromosome count of a eukaryote.
"estimated_size"	"estimated size"	The estimated size of the genome prior to sequencing. Of particular importance in the sequencing of (eukaryotic) genome which could remain in draft form for a long or unspecified period.
"ref_biomaterial"	"reference for biomaterial"	Primary publication if isolated before genome publication; otherwise, primary genome report.
"propagation"	"propagation"	This field is specific to different taxa. For phages: lytic/lysogenic, for plasmids: incompatibility group (Note: there is the strong opinion to name phage propagation obligately lytic or temperate, therefore we also give this choice.
"assembly"	"assembly"	How was the assembly done (e.g. with a text based assembler like phrap or a flowgram assembler); estimated error rate associated with the finished sequences (e.g. error rate of 1 in 1000 bp); and the method of calculation.
"finishing_strategy"	"finishing strategy"	Was the genome project intended to produce a complete or draft genome, Coverage, the fold coverage of the sequencing expressed as 2x, 3x, 18x etc, and how many contigs were produced for the genome.
isol_growth_condt	"isolation and growth condition"	Publication reference in the form of pubmed ID (pmid), digital object identifier (doi) or url for isolation and growth condition specifications of the organism/material.

MIxS environment-specific mandatory descriptors (all above items including core item and genome or metagenome need following items)
"Environmental package"	"Structured comment name"	"Item name"	"Definition"
"air"	"alt"	"altitude"	The altitude of the sample is the vertical distance between Earth's surface above sea level and the sampled position in the air
host-associated	none	-	-
human-associated	none	-	-
human-oral	none	-	-
human-gut	none	-	-
human-skin	none	-	-
human-vaginal	none	-	-
microbial mat/biofilm	depth	depth	Depth is defined as the vertical distance below surface, e.g. for microbial mat samples depth is measured from mat surface. Depth can be reported as an interval for subsurface samples.
microbial mat/biofilm	elev	elevation	The elevation of the sampling site as measured by the vertical distance from mean sea level.
miscellaneous	none	-	-
plant-associated	none	-	-
sediment	depth	depth	Depth is defined as the vertical distance below surface, e.g. for sediment samples depth is measured from sediment surface. Depth can be reported as an interval for subsurface samples.
sediment	elevation	elevation	The elevation of the sampling site as measured by the vertical distance from mean sea level.
soil	depth	depth	Depth is defined as the vertical distance below surface, e.g. for soil samples depth is measured from soil surface. Depth can be reported as an interval for subsurface samples.
soil	elevation	elevation	The elevation of the sampling site as measured by the vertical distance from mean sea level.
wastewater sludge	none	-	-
water	depth	depth	Depth is defined as the vertical distance below surface, e.g. for water samples depth is measured from water surface. Depth can be reported as an interval for subsurface samples.
